fake products false advertising ruthless
scams these are the 13 most evil Tech
fails that through Instant Karma have
completely backfired for the Company's
trying to make some quick cash ranging
from pretty naughty to Pure diabolical
starting with Nokia and their Lumia 920
in the phone's promotional material this
company decided that they really wanted
to emphasize the power of the 920's
optical image stabilization so they
created this situation where a guy was
holding the phone on his bike and he was
using the phone to record this girl on
another bike but viewers noticed
something a little Sinister later on in
the video the reflection of a person who
was not the original cyclist holding the
phone but in fact a completely different
guy standing in a van holding a proper
heavyduty film camera and that's because
the video wasn't really filmed on the
920 it was filmed on this speculated to
be a red Cinema Camera which I mean
those things are like minimum
$10,000 noia faked the entire ad and
that's especially bad because this ad
doesn't just vaguely imply that it was
shot on the phone it basically tells you
that it was wait how did you
break you can't do that in the age of
the Reddit investigator meaning that
Nokia was forced to make a public
apology and pretty much soil the
reputation of their one remaining
successful product line it's all
downhill from there free you can't beat
the internet and that's something that
Netflix also had to learn in 2011 you
might know that Netflix actually started
off as an online DVD rent by mail
service so people would use the website
to pick what they wanted to watch and
then the company would ship those out as
discs alongside a prepaid return
envelope but then as soon as internet
connections started improving and people
were also looking for alternatives to
cable TV Netflix also introduced the
option for subscribers to just stream a
smaller selection of the movies and TV
shows in their Library straight from
their site like we do now and as
Netflix's streaming business grew and
they found that surprise surprise it was
cheaper to run than manually going to
the post office and mailing people discs
they needed to find a way to encourage
people to choose that option that's
where they went wrong in 2011 Netflix
decided that they were going to split
their streaming and DVD rental services
which were previously all included for
one price into not just two different
tiers but two separate companies
entirely renaming their DVD service to
quickster it would involve users having
to have two separate accounts two
separate websites to navigate and also
two separate fees to pay the internet
quickly came to the conclusion that
keeping both subscriptions going after
the split would result in a price hike
of not 5% % or 10% but 60% leading
800,000 users to not subscribe to both
but instead just cancel their existing
subscriptions causing Netflix's entire
stock price to plunge to half of its
value talk about net flops it's 4 out of
10 fail and of course Netflix had to
back out of the plan with their tail
between their legs after only a month
and this actually all remained one
service until they completely stopped
renting out DVDs last year yeah they've
still been doing it this whole time but
it can always get worse as we're about
to see with some increasingly immoral
gaming fails do you remember when every
video game Studio was rushing to
implement nfts in their games companies
realize that if they made their in-game
items nfts then you could verify via the
blockchain that they are well and truly
oneof a kind which artificially
increases their perceived value and if
you increase the value of your in-game
items well that should drive more people
to play your game for longer to earn
them and create a marketplace where
players could buy and sell them with of
course the Developers taking a cut from
each
transaction oh my goodness wait that's
the actual smoke alarm can you just uh
dis that oh God just EA is probably the
most notorious company for bigging up
nfts not hugely surprising given they
were voted worst company in America in
2013 but in recent years it has started
to feel like Ubisoft is gunning for the
title because in 2021 they revealed
their plans for playable nfts in games
through a service called Ubisoft quartz
starting with Ghost Recon however
because actually designing thousands of
one-of-a-kind exclusive items would take
Ubisoft a long time they had a better
idea to give everyone the same item with
the unique twist being that each one had
its own serial number just like every
other product you've ever bought in a
shop but what made it so much worse is
that the entire game was designed around
those nfts each requiring anywhere from
100 to 600 hours to earn almost foring
players who wanted them but still wanted
to actually have a life to take out
their real wallets and pay thankfully
Karma bites back the trailer for Ubisoft
quarts was delisted on YouTube almost
immediately after it shot up to 95%
dislikes and when the project eventually
launched it was such a colossal failure
that it will never not be funny the
company likely lost millions in
reputational damage from the move how
much did they make from the entirety of
their nft efforts about
$400 so they could buy about seven
copies of their own game it's a five out
of 10 but worse still is what happened
to a game that I was personally really
excited for one of my favorite video
games of all time actually is Star Wars
Battlefront 2 on the PlayStation 2 this
game is basically sacred for Star Wars
fans and so imagine our reaction when EA
comes in and they say they're rebooting
this exact game for the modern era in
2017 but with nextg realism I remember
wanting to dial every single person in
my contacts list just to tell them how
big of a deal this was we were all so
caught up in excitement that the world
almost completely forgot that it was e
designing this game and thus the
microtransaction riddled mess that it
would end up becoming when the beta of
the game dropped if you wanted to make
basically any progress at all you would
have to open up dozens upon dozens of
completely randomized loot boxes until
you got what you needed and if you
wanted to do that without spending a
month literally glued to your television
screen you were going to have to take
out your wallet and spend real money now
it's one thing to have paid items in a
game it's a very different thing for
those paid items to be randomized and
most importantly to be be crucial to
actually winning these boxes they didn't
just contain skins and cosmetics
genuinely game-changing character
upgrades that were likely to be the
difference between winning and losing
players were not happy and they made
their voices heard one player complained
to EA that it was basically impossible
to unlock Darth Vader the most Shameless
character to put behind a pay wall
without paying real money and yep EA
made it worse by responding to this by
saying that the reason the characters
were so expensive is because they wanted
players to have a sense of
accomplishment from getting them and
this super condescending absolutely
bold-faced lie completely blew up it
became such a big Fiasco that even nonv
video game news sites were reporting on
it EA were actually taken to court by
the Belgian gaming commission accused of
promoting gambling among underage
players and they've basically been
arguing their case in court ever since
the game has improved but no one has
forgiven the company to the point where
new releases from the company are still
being investigated as recently as
2023 now what you want about Ubisoft and
EA at least they made the games that
landed them on this list the same can't
be said for raw raw was a massively
multiplayer online life simulator that
was promising enormous things the
initial trailer showed off entire towns
with a full economy where every player
has a job can purchase property and
vehicles and take out contracts with
other players you can even become the
mayor and govern your server it
basically looked like GTA online but
with 100 times the number of complex
systems and mechanics the trailers were
flashy and well animated but it was all
cinematics not real gameplay that said
it did not stop a lot of people from
backing the project on Kickstarter
leading the game to easily surpass the
nearly $80,000 that the company was
asking for in funding a lot of money
absolutely enough to develop a game this
sprawling not even close what these guys
were trying to do here would have cost
tens of millions of dollars and needed
100 developers at a minimum how many did
they have two they had two people all
signs were pointing towards scam and
they so nearly got away with it but it
was greed it was trying to convince
people that they were actually working
on something hoping they could squeeze
out just a little bit more in
Kickstarter funding they made a fatal
mistake they released a Gameplay trailer
of the game that didn't exist and as
soon as the internet saw it people
immediately realized that the whole
thing from the furniture to the players
Running Animation were all stock assets
clearly just pulled together from the
unity asset store that people would use
as a base to actually build a game upon
Kickstarter suspended their funding
immediately and also slapped them with a
fine of the total value of everything
they'd raised so far now you might have
recently heard of the right to repair
the idea that as a consumer you should
be able to freely repair your own device
rather than having to send it back to
the manufacturer who are basically
guaranteed to charge you more than it
costs looking at eone companies but
quite possibly the worst offender is the
huge Farm tech company John Deere who
started integrating engine control units
into their equipment that once they
detect any problem at all just shut down
many of the engines functions requiring
specific software and tools to fix and
where do you get those software and
tools oh you go to John Deere ah now it
makes sense this company was literally
designing their products to make them
purposefully difficult to repair while
also refusing to provide Farmers or
independent repair shops with the tools
needed to do so which stings even more
than the whole right to repair drama
with iPhones because let's be honest
practically no normal individual user is
actually repairing their own phone
whereas in the case of farmers and their
tractors it's a very normal thing to fix
it yourself oh and your livelihood
depends on it you're going to miss your
entire Harvest waiting for John Deere to
have to fix it and that's not even
accounting for the enormous Bill you're
going to get because of it so thankfully
the company is currently facing two
class action lawsuits accusing them of
monopolizing the industry and given that
their repair business makes them three
to six times the profit that they make
on actually sell their gear it's looking
less like John
Deere more like OD deer can you imagine
how stressful it's been having to
research this video to learn all the
excruciating details of this evilness
the only thing that's got me through it
is tful the Serene meditative State you
enter in which it doesn't actually
matter how many tabs of hair pulling Le
evil Tech fails through are open thanks
to the organization the grouping and
even the color coding of tabs in the
Opera browser you stay stressfree the
inner piece that descends when you're
not being bombarded with stupid ads
you're not digging through endless pages
but you're getting instant answers from
Arya Opera's browser AI we all face
stressful things in our lives but by
downloading the Opera browser using the
link in the description you can at least
find calm in your browser okay it's time
to delve deeper into the depths of tech
hell with a returning guest this is like
the one series you don't want to be a
regular on on a past fails video we
talked about the sheer negligence of
Boeing with their 737 Max aircraft the
next generation of the most popular
aircraft in history that thanks to a
whole number of poor decisions crashed
twice leading to the deaths of hundreds
of passengers it was a catastrophe and
they've done it again when on the 5th of
January 2024 the Boeing 737 Max aircraft
flying from Portland to California had
to return for an emergency landing
shortly after taking off when the door
came off I mean just imagine you're
flying at 16,00 F feet in the air you're
barely 5 minutes into Shrek 2 on your
phone when the door right next to the
seats flies off into Oblivion
miraculously only seven seats in that
plane were unoccupied and two of those
just so happened to be next to that door
meaning that somehow not a single person
was seriously injured but people lost
their belongings one person had his
shirt sucked off his body and if he
wasn't wearing a seat belt there's a
very good chance he would have gone with
it side note kind of incredibly one
phone that fell out of the plane which
looks to me like a 14 pro was actually
found on the side of a road still
working after that drop yeah as far as
this 737 Max is concerned after this
incident with everyone being completely
shocked that this could even happen to a
plane that had just come off the
production lines 2 months ago around 170
of them were grounded so they could be
inspected for potential issues with the
doors after which both United and Alaska
Airlines found multiple loose Parts
including installation issues with the
exact same door plug that had caused the
accident in nearly 10 of their 79 Boeing
planes and then the Federal Aviation
Administration found further
manufacturing issues all but forcing
Boeing CEO to have to admit to a lapse
in quality control which you could argue
is not evil it's just negligent but then
I think persistent negligence in the
face of even potentially fatal
consequences feels pretty corrupt to me
oh and the passengers of the Ontario
flight are also suing them leading this
to be our first six out of 10 Bill have
you ever heard of bit connect there's a
good chance you saw or more likely heard
this Unstoppable in 2016 when the
new cryptocurrency bitconnect first
[Applause]
launched here's some advice that I think
some people could have done with at the
time if someone is literally having to
yell at you about how good their virtual
coin is don't buy it bitconnect if you
take what they say at face value
bitconnect seems crazy profitable users
were being promised a 1% return on their
investment every single day which if you
do the math means that if you dropped so
much as $11,000 on day one then with it
compounding every single day by the end
of 3 years you would be on $50
million the guy was basically promising
people free money and the crazy part of
it was that it kind of worked while the
value of one bitconnect started out at
$0.1 the sheer fever these guys managed
to create around this coin it rocketed
the value all the way to a peak of
455 and then the authorities got
involved this was one of the first of
what would become many crypto Ponzi
schemes basically a scam where someone
asks for an investment from you and then
asks you to go and recruit even more
investors you get paid but you're only
getting paid because even more people
are being lured into the Trap from the
bottom of the pyramid and investing
their money too and the problem with
this is eventually the pyramid has to
collapse cuz you can't keep finding
bigger and bigger groups of new
investors to support the growing weight
from above so yes bitconnect was
eventually forced to refund every single
one of its investors and over $50
million in crypto was seized from one of
its Founders ouch 7 out of 10 but we're
not always so lucky sometimes tech
companies do something truly awful and
they get away with it so just before
number
five here's a quick fire round of the
ones that got away with the iPhone 14
launch Apple really pushed the
boundaries when they tried to sell the
fact that they were using the exact same
chipset for the iPhone 14 as they used
for the iPhone 13 as a feature to iPhone
14 when I saw this my jaw Hit the Floor
csgo Lotto was a website where people
could gamble with real money for
collectible weapon skins in the game
Counter-Strike Global Offensive the site
came out of nowhere when it was suddenly
massively promoted by two gaming
YouTubers who kept posting videos of
them winning big and encouraging their
mostly younger viewers to get involved
and because it managed to carefully
swerve gambling laws there were no
restrictions on under 18s joining it
until it was revealed that these two
YouTube ERS were the owners of the site
and they must have been making bank
because they were exposed for paying
other influencers up to
$225,000 each to promote the site but
what happened when they got sued for
promoting well gambling for children
well they literally got away with being
told don't do that again Amazon is
widely regarded as being the worst big
tech company for how it treats its staff
in terms of stress encouraging delivery
drivers to make 150 plus stops in a
single day often causing them to skip
meals and even bathroom breaks in terms
of safety with ambulances having been
called out over a thousand times since
2018 in just the UK from Amazon
warehouse staff and in terms of just
general ethics with up to 18,000 workers
recently fired in one go most found out
via an email but up until this point it
hasn't caught up with them in any
meaningful way and then while every
taxation system around the world charges
you more the more money you earn the big
six tech companies Amazon alphabet
Facebook Netflix apple and Microsoft
have each individually managed to sneak
their way out of it by situating their
headquarters in low tax zones even
though those aren't the zones they're
primarily operating in they've managed
to get away with paying just $219
billion in taxes between 2010 and 2020
now that might sound like a lot these
are the richest companies in the world
and that accounts for just 3.6% of their
total revenue for reference people
earning high amounts here in the UK pay
45% okay if you're enjoying this video
then a sub to the channel would be
Wicked right no companies getting away
now it's time for the top five companies
who are truly evil and who got punished
just as badly for it starting with Wei
work the company who practically
invented the concept of buying out
Office Buildings and then renting out
individual floors and spaces to
businesses and aspiring entrepreneurs
and we work generated a lot of buzz it
was great for networking it was great
for motivating people who would
otherwise be sat in their parents'
basement it gave business people a more
typical working life structure which as
someone who works some pretty odd hours
I can see the benefit of as could a lot
of people cuz in fact at its peak Wei
work was valued at an absolutely
eye-watering hard to even think about 48
billion but nobody is immune to this
series and practically the sole reason
we work failed is their extremely
irresponsible CEO Adam Newman this guy
had something so good on his hands but
he just kept making unbelievably
Reckless decisions like buying a $60
million private jet before the company
had even gone public investing heavily
into a company that makes artificial
wave pools or like when Newman changed
the company's name from Wei work to we
company which is a name he just so
happened to have recently trademarked
himself so that he could sell that name
to the company making $5.9 million in
personal profits but the final nail in
the coffin came when wework eventually
decided to go public now when a company
goes public and everyone starts buying
shares most CEOs they tend to wait for
this moment before selling their own
shares to maximize the value Newman for
some reason just decided to take out his
entire $700 million in stock basically
the night before meaning that at the
point where we work actually became
available to buy their now public stats
just showed enormous losses which does
not work Newman's continued poor
leadership it got this company to a
stage where they were so poor they
couldn't even afford to fire their
employees leading to him asked to resign
a CEO wew work is still around but it
hasn't got even close to their dizzying
original valuation since but some fails
stem from nobler goals than just trying
to make a quick barck like for instance
trying to solve world hunger like when
scientists at mit's media lab developed
what they were calling the food computer
basically a pod designed to grow perfect
crops with LEDs sensors pumps and
precision machine learning algorithms
constantly tweaking the internal climate
the idea was to sell thousands of these
things to Farmers to create massive
agricultural servers which would allow
anyone to grow anything and absolutely
revolutionize farming as we know it they
even announced that they already started
sending units to a refugee camp which
could really help people except they
hadn't it turned out the Project Lead
Caleb Harper was just straight up lying
about that for publicity and it turned
out that wasn't the only thing he was
lying about because in 2020 it came to
light that the food computer itself
didn't even work in the first place this
guy had gone as far as to get his team
to go out and buy potted plants from a
store plant them in the computers and
pass them off as specimens that have
been grown from scratch from inside the
devices MIT obviously fired Harper and
shuttered the project immediately but it
just gets worse because it turns out
that the project had also been polluting
the local water supply with toxic
nitrogen infused Wastewater the whole
time so MIT were fined too but I can't
think of a more continuous lapse in
judgment than what happened recently
with Reddit on April 18th 2023 Reddit
announced changes to their data policies
so they could monetize their data better
essentially before this happened a lot
of tools will be able to freely access
reddits data which means moderators who
look after the various communities could
create tools that help them to actively
approve and reject posts as they come in
that a lot of users were free to use
third party tools to browse Reddit in a
more organized efficient way and also
that Reddit had become like the perfect
place to train new AI models cuz it's
just 18 years of pure human conversation
so if you ever wanted to build an AI
that talks like us and thinks like us
then it's a gold mine and this AR
Arrangement worked out quite well almost
all these moderators were basically
doing reddit's work for them for free
Reddit was earning healthy amounts of
cash via the ad revenue from the site
and the platform was also just doing a
general service for the internet but
Reddit didn't like that they decided
that they wanted to start charging for
the use of their data partly to
obviously make more money immediately
but partly because they knew this would
also allow them to charge the third
party Reddit clients like Apollo which
since they have to access Reddit data to
work bucket loads of cash like in the
casee of Apollo these charges would
literally have cost the app $20 million
per year in data charges so they were
forced to shut down remember this isn't
just a normal company deciding to up the
prices of their products this is a
company that's almost built by the
people who saw their work as a form of
Charity as a way to help share
information that they felt like makes
the world a better place and so when
redditors caught wind of what had
happened they were outraged it became
Global News and many moderators of the
subreddits they started to go dark in
protest either by privating those
subreddits or activating the not safe
for work tag so their content can no
longer be monetized by Reddit at the
beginning of the protest over 7,000
subreddits went dark with some going
indefinitely Reddit then tried to calm
things down by offering an ask me
anything with their CEO Steve Hoffman
but his refusal to budge only enraged
users more he was constantly saying
stuff like this is like a protest in a
city that goes on for too long and that
the moderators who are unpaid volunteers
remember are like the landed gentry
meaning people who have been handed
undeserved power without having had to
earn it themselves essentially this
company once the social platform with
the biggest active community in the
world continue to shoot themselves in
the foot like this until their
reputation was tarnished basically
forever their Goodwill shredded which
matters more so for Reddit than anyone
not to mention the large hit to General
engagement on the platform Aus hfil now
it is hard to screw up more than that
but I think Volkswagen takes it after
what they did in 2015 it turns out that
this company had been fitting their cars
with engines deliberately programmed to
activate their emissions controls only
when they detect that they're in a
Laboratory test which basically meant
that Volkswagen cars were programmed to
have two modes one that meant they were
actually terrible to drive with low
power and mileage which would allow them
to pass the Environmental Protection
test and then the other mode that the
drivers experienced which drove fine but
was secretly pumping out up to 40 times
the federal limit of some pollutants
when it was found out that they had been
doing this since 2009 with 11 million
cars across the globe being fitted with
the test cheating technology this
company rightfully got absolutely
hammered facing eye-watering fines of
$25 billion if that's not a 9 out of 10
fail I don't know what it is but quite
possibly the biggest riches to rags fail
that we've ever covered in any one of
these videos is FDX so this is s bank
mfried who in 2019 founded the company
FTX what became the second largest
crypto exchange a platform like binance
where people could buy and sell their
cryptocurrencies and people were all in
on it a combination of Hefty marketing
budgets the promise of extreme returns
and overnight riches and celebrity
endorsements and big sponsorship deals
like literally the Mercedes-Benz Formula
1 team and even the Miami Heat NBA team
whose entire stadium was actually
rebranded to the FTX Arena I mean these
guys even had a Super Bowl ad with
legendary comedian Larry David creator
of Seinfeld and Curb Your Enthusiasm and
bankman free was being hailed as God's
gift to the world of crypto so how on
Earth do you screw up from there well
FTX was actually a mess what seemed on
the outside like the future of investing
was on the inside just problem after
problem stacked on top of each other the
first being that they weren't being
completely honest turns out that as well
as FTX bankman freed also owned another
crypto trading firm called alamida
research he said that both companies
operated completely separately but it
turned out that he was secretly sending
customer deposits from FTX so money that
people are traded in to Alam research to
then invest in Risky things to try and
turn it into even more money gambling
with customer funds between companies
without telling them is spectacularly
illegal especially since we're not
talking like thousands of dollars or
even Millions this was done with $1
billion and there was an even more
fundamental problem see the way that a
crypto exchange should work is to
constantly make sure that it has liquid
assets lots of money to make sure that
if any customer decides they want out
that they want to swap their crypto back
into dollar say that the exchange can
give it to them FTX did not have that
the money that bankman freed told people
he had was actually almost completely
just other cryptocurrencies which
already makes them unstable should
anything happen to the crypto Market but
most worryingly their largest asset was
their own cryptocurrency called ftt let
me just get the straight so Sam made a
currency he assigned a value to that
currency and then he used that value as
the collateral to Finance his projects
and gain Investments and what that meant
was that the ability of FTX as a
platform to actually pay anybody was
completely dependent on the current
market value of ftt which is fine when
it's doing well but then as soon as the
ties started to turn against crypto
which coincided with one of ftxs
competing platforms deciding to get rid
of every bit of ftt that they had in one
Fell Swoop the market was suddenly
flooded with ftt that no one wanted and
its value collapsed FTX immediately lost
large chunk of the value that they had
but then it gets worse because as soon
as a ton of ftt is sold customers start
to lose confidence in FTX to and so at
the same time that FTX loses its money
it has to give its money leading to a
massive implosion bankruptcy of the
company and Sam bankman freed facing up
to 115 years in prison that's a 10
thanks for watching it really does mean
a lot to me I'll catch you in the next
one